Executive Order 14144—Strengthening and Promoting Innovation in the Nation's 
Cybersecurity

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United 
States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
et seq.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 212(f) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it 
is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1.   Foreign nations and criminals continue to conduct cyber campaigns targeting the United States and Americans.  The People’s Republic of China presents the most active and persistent cyber threat to United States Government, private sector, and critical infrastructure networks, but significant threats also emanate from Russia, Iran, North Korea, and others who undermine United States cybersecurity.  These campaigns disrupt the delivery of critical services across the Nation, cost billions of dollars, and undermine Americans’ security and privacy.  More must be done to improve the Nation’s cybersecurity against these threats.  I am ordering additional actions to improve our Nation’s cybersecurity, focusing on defending our digital infrastructure, securing the services and capabilities most vital to the digital domain, and building our capability to address key threats.

Building on the foundational steps I directed in Executive Order 14028 of May 12, 2021 
(Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity), and the initiatives detailed in the National Cybersecurity 
Strategy, I am ordering additional actions to improve our Nation's cybersecurity, focusing on 
defending our digital infrastructure, securing the services and capabilities most vital to the digital 
domain, and building our capability to address key threats, including those from the People's 
Republic of China. Improving accountability for software and cloud service providers, 
strengthening the security of Federal communications and Fidentity management systems, and 
promoting innovative developments and the use of emerging technologies for cybersecurity 
across executive departments and agencies (agencies) and with the private sector are especially 
critical to improvement of the Nation's cybersecurity.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that 
hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or 
control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be 
transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) the persons listed in the Annex to this order;
(ii) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the 
Attorney General and the Secretary of State, to be responsible for or complicit in, or to 
have engaged in, directly or indirectly, cyber-enabled activities originating from, or 
directed by persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside the United States 
that are reasonably likely to result in, or have materially contributed to, a threat to the 
national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of the United 
States, and that have the purpose of or involve:
(A) harming, or otherwise compromising the provision of services by, a computer 
or network of computers that support one or more entities in a critical 
infrastructure sector;
(B) compromising the provision of services by one or more entities in a critical 
infrastructure sector;
(C) causing a disruption to the availability of a computer or network of computers 
or compromising the integrity of the information stored on a computer or network 
of computers;
(D) causing a misappropriation of funds or economic resources, intellectual 
property, proprietary or business confidential information, personal identifiers, or 
15
financial information for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial 
gain;
(E) tampering with, altering, or causing a misappropriation of information with the 
purpose of or that involves interfering with or undermining election processes or 
institutions; or
(F) engaging in a ransomware attack, such as extortion through malicious use of 
code, encryption, or other activity to affect the confidentiality, integrity, or 
availability of data or a computer or network of computers, against a United States 
person, the United States, a United States ally or partner or a citizen, national, or 
entity organized under the laws thereof; or
(iii) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the 
Attorney General and the Secretary of State:
(A) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or 
indirectly, the receipt or use for commercial or competitive advantage or private 
financial gain, or by a commercial entity, outside the United States of funds or 
economic resources, intellectual property, proprietary or business confidential 
information, personal identifiers, or financial information misappropriated through 
cyber-enabled means, knowing they have been misappropriated, where the 
misappropriation of such funds or economic resources, intellectual property, 
proprietary or business confidential information, personal identifiers, or financial 
information is reasonably likely to result in, or has materially contributed to, a 
threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial 
stability of the United States;
(B) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or 
indirectly, activities related to gaining or attempting to gain unauthorized access to 
a computer or network of computers of a United States person, the United States, a 
United States ally or partner or a citizen, national, or entity organized under the 
laws thereof, where such efforts originate from or are directed by persons located, 
in whole or substantial part, outside the United States and are reasonably likely to 
result in, or have materially contributed to, a significant threat to the national 
security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of the United 
States;
(C) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or 
technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity 
described in subsections (a)(ii) or (a)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section or any person 
whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;
(D) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on 
behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in 
property are blocked pursuant to this order or that has engaged in any activity 
described in subsections (a)(ii) or (a)(iii)(A)–(C) of this section;
(E) to have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in subsections 
(a)(ii) and (a)(iii)(A)–(D) of this section; or
(F) to be or have been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the 
board of directors of any person whose property and interests in property are 
blocked pursuant to this order or that has engaged in any activity described in 
subsections (a)(ii) or (a)(iii)(A)–(E) of this section.
Sec. 2. Operationalizing Transparency and Security in Third-Party Software Supply Chains. 
(a) The Federal Government and our Nation's critical infrastructure rely on software providers. 
Yet insecure software remains a challenge for both providers and users and makes Federal 
Government and critical infrastructure systems vulnerable to malicious cyber incidents. The 
Federal Government must continue to adopt secure software acquisition practices and take steps 
so that software providers use secure software development practices to reduce the number and 
severity of vulnerabilities in software they produce.
(b) Executive Order 14028 directed actions to improve the security and integrity of software 
critical to the Federal Government's ability to function. Executive Order 14028 directed the 
development of guidance on secure software development practices and on generating and 
providing evidence in the form of artifacts—computer records or data that are generated manually 
or by automated means—that demonstrate compliance with those practices. Additionally, it 
directed the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to require agencies to use 
only software from providers that attest to using those secure software development practices. In 
some instances, providers of software to the Federal Government commit to following 
cybersecurity practices, yet do not fix well-known exploitable vulnerabilities in their software, 
which puts the Government at risk of compromise. The Federal Government needs to adopt more 
rigorous third-party risk management practices and greater assurance that software providers that 
support critical Government services are following the practices to which they attest.
(i) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Director of OMB, in consultation with 
the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of the National Institute of 
2
Standards and Technology (NIST), and the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting 
through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), 
shall recommend to the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council (FAR Council) 
contract language requiring software providers to submit to CISA through CISA's 
Repository for Software Attestation and Artifacts (RSAA):
(A) machine-readable secure software development attestations;
(B) high-level artifacts to validate those attestations; and
(C) a list of the providers' Federal Civilian Executive Branch (FCEB) agency 
software customers.
(ii) Within 120 days of the receipt of the recommendations described in subsection 
(b)(i) of this section, the FAR Council shall review the recommendations and, as 
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of Defense, the 
Administrator of General Services, and the Administrator of the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration (the agency members of the FAR Council) shall jointly take 
steps to amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) to implement those 
recommendations. The agency members of the FAR Council are strongly encouraged to 
consider issuing an interim final rule, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.
(iii) Within 60 days of the date of the issuance of the recommendations described in 
subsection (b)(i) of this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the 
Director of CISA, shall evaluate emerging methods of generating, receiving, and 
verifying machine-readable secure software development attestations and artifacts and, 
as appropriate, shall provide guidance for software providers on submitting them to 
CISA's RSAA website, including a common data schema and format.
(iv) Within 30 days of the date of any amendments to the FAR described in subsection 
(b)(ii) of this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director 
of CISA, shall develop a program to centrally verify the completeness of all attestation 
forms. CISA shall continuously validate a sample of the complete attestations using 
high-level artifacts in the RSAA.
(v) If CISA finds that attestations are incomplete or artifacts are insufficient for 
validating the attestations, the Director of CISA shall notify the software provider and 
the contracting agency. The Director of CISA shall provide a process for the software Add commentMore actions
provider to respond to CISA's initial determination and shall duly consider the response.
(vi) For attestations that undergo validation, the Director of CISA shall inform the 
National Cyber Director, who shall publicly post the results, identifying the software 
providers and software version. The National Cyber Director is encouraged to refer 
attestations that fail validation to the Attorney General for action as appropriate.
(c)  Relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall take the following actions:

(i)    By August 1, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST, shall establish a consortium with industry at the National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence to develop guidance, informed by the consortium as appropriate, that demonstrates the implementation of secure software development, security, and operations practices based on NIST Special Publication 800–218 (Secure Software Development Framework (SSDF)).

(ii)   By September 2, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST, shall update NIST Special Publication 800–53 (Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations) to provide guidance on how to securely and reliably deploy patches and updates.

(iii)  By December 1, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST, in consultation with the heads of such agencies as the Director of NIST deems appropriate, shall develop and publish a preliminary update to the SSDF.  This preliminary update shall include practices, procedures, controls, and implementation examples regarding the secure and reliable development and delivery of software as well as the security of the software itself.  Within 120 days of publishing the preliminary update, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST, shall publish a final version of the updated SSDF.
(d) As agencies have improved their cyber defenses, adversaries have targeted the weak 
links in agency supply chains and the products and services upon which the Federal Government 
relies. Agencies need to integrate cybersecurity supply chain risk management programs into 
enterprise-wide risk management activities. Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Director 
of OMB, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST, 
the Administrator of General Services, and the Federal Acquisition Security Council (FASC), 
shall take steps to require, as the Director deems appropriate, that agencies comply with the 
guidance in NIST Special Publication 800–161 (Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management 
Practices for Systems and Organizations (SP 800–161 Revision 1)). OMB shall require agencies 
to provide annual updates to OMB as they complete implementation. Consistent with SP 800–161 
Revision 1, OMB's requirements shall address the integration of cybersecurity into the acquisition 
lifecycle through acquisition planning, source selection, responsibility determination, security 
compliance evaluation, contract administration, and performance evaluation.
(e) Open source software plays a critical role in Federal information systems. To help the 
Federal Government continue to reap the innovation and cost benefits of open source software 
and contribute to the cybersecurity of the open source software ecosystem, agencies must better 
manage their use of open source software. Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary 
of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of CISA, and the Director of OMB, in 
consultation with the Administrator of General Services and the heads of other agencies as 
appropriate, shall jointly issue recommendations to agencies on the use of security assessments 
and patching of open source software and best practices for contributing to open source software 
projects.

Sec. 3. Improving the Cybersecurity of Federal Systems. 
(a) The Federal Government must maintain the ability to rapidly and effectively identify 
threats across the Federal enterprise. To enable identification of threat activity, CISA's capability to hunt for and identify 
threats across FCEB agencies under 44 U.S.C. 3553(b)(7) must be strengthened.
(i) The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of CISA, in 
coordination with the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO) Council and Federal 
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Council, shall develop the technical 
capability to gain timely access to required data from FCEB agency endpoint detection 
and response (EDR) solutions and from FCEB agency security operation centers to 
enable:
(A) timely hunting and identification of cyber threats and vulnerabilities 
across the Federal civilian enterprise;
(B) identification of coordinated cyber campaigns that simultaneously target 
multiple agencies and move laterally across the Federal enterprise; and
(C) coordination of Government-wide efforts on information security policies and 
practices, including compilation and analysis of information about incidents that 
threaten information security.
(ii) Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
acting through the Director of CISA, in coordination with the Federal CIO and CISO 
Councils, shall develop and release a concept of operations that enables CISA to gain 
timely access to required data to achieve the objectives described in subsection (c)(i) of 
this section. The Director of OMB shall oversee the development of this concept of 
operations to account for agency perspectives and the objectives outlined in this section 
and shall approve the final concept of operations. This concept of operations shall 
include:
(A) requirements for FCEB agencies to provide CISA with data of sufficient 
completeness and on the timeline required to enable CISA to achieve the 
objectives described in subsection (c)(i) of this section;
(B) requirements for CISA to provide FCEB agencies with advanced notification 
when CISA directly accesses agency EDR solutions to obtain required telemetry;
(C) specific use cases for which agencies may provide telemetry data subject to the 
requirements in subsection (c)(ii)(A) of this section as opposed to direct access to 
EDR solutions by CISA;
5
(D) high-level technical and policy control requirements to govern CISA access to 
agency EDR solutions that conform with widely accepted cybersecurity principles, 
including role-based access controls, "least privilege," and separation of duties;
(E) specific protections for highly sensitive agency data that is subject to statutory, 
regulatory, or judicial restrictions to protect confidentiality or integrity; and
(F) an appendix to the concept of operations that identifies and addresses certain 
types of specific use cases under subsection (c)(ii)(C) of this section that apply to 
the Department of Justice, including certain categories of information described in 
subsections (c)(vi) and (c)(vii) of this section, and requires the Department of 
Justice's concurrence on the terms of the appendix prior to implementation of the 
concept of operations on the Department of Justice's or its subcomponents' 
networks.
(iii) In undertaking the activities described in subsection (c) of this section, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of CISA, shall only make 
a change to an agency network, system, or data when such change is required for threat
hunting by CISA, including access to the EDR tools described in subsection (c)(ii) of 
this section, or in furtherance of its authority to conduct threat hunting as authorized 
under 44 U.S.C. 3553(b)(7), unless otherwise authorized by the agency.
(iv) Within 30 days of the release of the concept of operations described in subsection 
(b)(ii) of this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director 
of CISA, shall establish working groups, open to all agencies, to develop and release 
specific technical controls that achieve the objectives set forth in subsection (c)(ii) of 
this section and to work with EDR solution providers to implement those controls in 
FCEB agency deployments of EDR solutions. The Secretary of Homeland Security, 
acting through the Director of CISA, shall, at a minimum, establish a working group for 
each EDR solution authorized by CISA for use in the CISA Continuous Diagnostic and 
Mitigation Program. Each working group shall be open to all agencies and include at 
least one representative from an FCEB agency employing the designated EDR solution.
(v) Within 180 days of the release of the technical controls described in subsection 
(c)(iv) of this section, the heads of FCEB agencies shall enroll endpoints using an EDR 
solution covered by those controls in the CISA Persistent Access Capability program.
(vi) Within 90 days of the date of this order, and periodically thereafter as needed, the 
heads of FCEB agencies shall provide to CISA a list of systems, endpoints, and data 
sets that require additional controls or periods of non-disruption to ensure that CISA's 
threat-hunting activities do not disrupt mission-critical operations, along with an 
explanation of those operations.
(vii) In cases in which agency data is subject to statutory, regulatory, or judicial access 
restrictions, the Director of CISA shall comply with agency processes and procedures 
required to access such data or work with the agency to develop an appropriate 
administrative accommodation consistent with any such restrictions so that the data is 
not subject to unauthorized access or use.
(viii) Nothing in this order requires an agency to provide access to information that is 
protected from non-disclosure by court order or otherwise required to be kept 
confidential in connection with a judicial proceeding.
(c) The security of Federal information systems relies on the security of the Government's 
cloud services. Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Administrator of General Services, 
6
acting through the Director of the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program 
(FedRAMP), in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of 
NIST, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of CISA, shall 
develop FedRAMP policies and practices to incentivize or require cloud service providers in the 
FedRAMP Marketplace to produce baselines with specifications and recommendations for 
agency configuration of agency cloud-based systems in order to secure Federal data based on 
agency requirements.
(e) As cybersecurity threats to space systems increase, these systems and their supporting 
digital infrastructure must be designed to adapt to evolving cybersecurity threats and operate in 
contested environments. In light of the pivotal role space systems play in global critical 
infrastructure and communications resilience, and to further protect space systems and the 
supporting digital infrastructure vital to our national security, including our economic security, 
agencies shall take steps to continually verify that Federal space systems have the requisite 
cybersecurity capabilities through actions including continuous assessments, testing, exercises, 
and modeling and simulation.
(i) Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
the Director of the United States Geological Survey; the Secretary of Commerce, acting 
through the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and the 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and the 
Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall each review 
the civil space contract requirements in the FAR and recommend to the FAR Council 
and other appropriate agencies updates to civil space cybersecurity requirements and 
relevant contract language. The recommended cybersecurity requirements and contract 
language shall use a risk-based, tiered approach for all new civil space systems. Such 
requirements shall be designed to apply at minimum to the civil space systems' on-orbit 
segments and link segments. The requirements shall address the following elements for 
the highest-risk tier and, as appropriate, other tiers:
(A) protection of command and control of the civil space system, including backup 
or failover systems, by:
(1) encrypting commands to protect the confidentiality of communications;
(2) ensuring commands are not modified in transit;
(3) ensuring an authorized party is the source of commands; and
(4) rejecting unauthorized command and control attempts;
(B) establishment of methods to detect, report, and recover from anomalous 
network or system activity; and
(C) use of secure software and hardware development practices, consistent with the 
NIST SSDF or any successor documents.
(ii) Within 180 days of receiving the recommended contract language described in 
subsection (e)(i) of this section, the FAR Council shall review the proposal and, as 
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the agency members of the FAR 
Council shall jointly take steps to amend the FAR.
(iii) Within 120 days of the date of this order, the National Cyber Director shall submit 
to OMB a study of space ground systems owned, managed, or operated by FCEB 
agencies. This study shall include:
(A) an inventory of space ground systems;
7
(B) whether each space ground system is classified as a major information system 
under 44 U.S.C. 3505(c), labeled "Inventory of major information systems"; and
(C) recommendations to improve the cyber defenses and oversight of such space 
ground systems.
(iv) Within 90 days of the submission of the study described in subsection (e)(iii) of this 
section, the Director of OMB shall take appropriate steps to help ensure that space 
ground systems owned, managed, or operated by FCEB agencies comply with relevant
cybersecurity requirements issued by OMB.
Sec. 4. Securing Federal Communications. (a) To improve the security of Federal 
Government communications against adversarial nations and criminals, the Federal Government 
must implement, to the extent practicable and consistent with mission needs, strong identity 
authentication and encryption using modern, standardized, and commercially available algorithms 
and protocols.
(b) Relevant agencies shall take the following actions
(i) Within 90 days of the date of this order, FCEB agencies shall take steps to ensure 
that all of their assigned Internet number resources (Internet Protocol (IP) address 
blocks and Autonomous System Numbers) are covered by a Registration Services 
Agreement with the American Registry for Internet Numbers or another appropriate 
regional Internet registry. Thereafter, FCEB agencies shall annually review and update 
in their regional Internet registry accounts organizational identifiers related to assigned 
number resources such as organization names, points of contact, and associated email 
addresses.
(ii) Within 120 days of the date of this order, all FCEB agencies that hold IP address 
blocks shall create and publish Route Origin Authorizations in the public Resource 
Public Key Infrastructure repository hosted or delegated by the American Registry for 
Internet Numbers or the appropriate regional Internet registry for the IP address blocks 
they hold.
(iii) Within 120 days of the date of this order, the National Cyber Director, in 
coordination with the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall recommend contract 
language to the FAR Council to require contracted providers of Internet services to 
agencies to adopt and deploy Internet routing security technologies, including 
publishing Route Origin Authorizations and performing Route Origin Validation 
filtering. The recommended language shall include requirements or exceptions, as 
appropriate, for agency contracts regarding overseas operations and overseas local 
service providers. Within 270 days of receiving these recommendations, the FAR 
Council shall review the recommended contract language and, as appropriate and 
consistent with applicable law, the agency members of the FAR Council shall jointly 
take steps to amend the FAR. Pending any such amendments to the FAR, individual 
agencies are encouraged to include such requirements in future contracts, consistent 
with applicable law.
(c) Encrypting Domain Name System (DNS) traffic in transit is a critical step to protecting 
both the confidentiality of the information being transmitted to, and the integrity of the 
communication with, the DNS resolver.
(i) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting 
through the Director of CISA, shall publish template contract language requiring that 
any product that acts as a DNS resolver (whether client or server) for the Federal 
Government support encrypted DNS and shall recommend that language to the FAR 
Council. Within 120 days of receiving the recommended language, the FAR Council 
shall review it, and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the agency 
members of the FAR Council shall jointly take steps to amend the FAR.
(ii) Within 180 days of the date of this order, FCEB agencies shall enable encrypted 
DNS protocols wherever their existing clients and servers support those protocols. 
FCEB agencies shall also enable such protocols within 180 days of any additional 
clients and servers supporting such protocols.
(d) The Federal Government must encrypt email messages in transport and, where practical, 
use end-to-end encryption in order to protect messages from compromise.
(i) Within 120 days of the date of this order, each FCEB agency shall technically 
enforce encrypted and authenticated transport for all connections between the agency's 
email clients and their associated email servers.
(e) Modern communications such as voice and video conferencing and instant messaging are 
usually encrypted at the link level but often are not encrypted end-to-end. Within 180 days of the 
date of this order, to advance the security of Internet-based voice and video conferencing and 
instant messaging, the Director of OMB, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, acting through the Director of CISA; the Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Director of the National Security Agency (NSA); the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the 
Director of NIST; the Archivist of the United States, acting through the Chief Records Officer for 
the United States Government; and the Administrator of General Services shall take appropriate 
steps to require agencies to:
(i) enable transport encryption by default; and
(ii) where technically supported, use end-to-end encryption by default while 
maintaining logging and archival capabilities that allow agencies to fulfill records 
management and accountability requirements.
(f)  A quantum computer of sufficient size and sophistication —  also known as a cryptanalytically relevant quantum computer (CRQC) —  will be capable of breaking much of the public-key cryptography used on digital systems across the United States and around the world.  National Security Memorandum 10 of May 4, 2022 (Promoting United States Leadership in Quantum Computing While Mitigating Risks to Vulnerable Cryptographic Systems), directed the Federal Government to prepare for a transition to cryptographic algorithms that would not be vulnerable to a CRQC.

(i)   By December 1, 2025, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), and in consultation with the Director of the National Security Agency, shall release and thereafter regularly update a list of product categories in which products that support post-quantum cryptography (PQC) are widely available.

(ii)  By December 1, 2025, to prepare for transition to PQC, the Director of the National Security Agency with respect to National Security Systems (NSS), and the Director of OMB with respect to non-NSS, shall each issue requirements for agencies to support, as soon as practicable, but not later than January 2, 2030, Transport Layer Security protocol version 1.3 or a successor version.
(g) The Federal Government should take advantage of commercial security technologies and 
architectures, such as hardware security modules, trusted execution environments, and other 
isolation technologies, to protect and audit access to cryptographic keys with extended lifecycles.
(i) Within 270 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through 
the Director of NIST, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting 
through the Director of CISA, and the Administrator of General Services shall develop 
guidelines for the secure management of access tokens and cryptographic keys used by 
cloud service providers.
(ii) Within 60 days of the publication of the guidelines described in subsection (g)(i) of 
this section, the Administrator of General Services, acting through the FedRAMP 
Director, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director
of NIST, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of CISA, 
shall develop updated FedRAMP requirements, incorporating the guidelines described 
in subsection (g)(i) of this section, as appropriate and consistent with guidance issued 
by the Director of OMB, concerning cryptographic key management security practices.
(iii) Within 60 days of the publication of the guidelines described in subsection (g)(i) of 
this section, the Director of OMB, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, 
acting through the Director of NIST; the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting 
through the Director of CISA; and the Administrator of General Services shall take 
appropriate steps to require FCEB agencies to follow best practices concerning the 
protection and management of hardware security modules, trusted execution 
10
environments, or other isolation technologies for access tokens and cryptographic keys 
used by cloud service providers in the provision of services to agencies.

Sec. 5.  Promoting Security with and in Artificial Intelligence.  Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to transform cyber defense by rapidly identifying vulnerabilities, increasing the scale of threat detection techniques, and automating cyber defense.

(a)  By November 1, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST; the Secretary of Energy; the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology; and the Director of the National Science Foundation shall ensure that existing datasets for cyber defense research have been made accessible to the broader academic research community (either securely or publicly) to the maximum extent feasible, in consideration of business confidentiality and national security.

(b)  By November 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with appropriate officials within the Executive Office of the President, to include officials within the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Office of the National Cyber Director, and the Director of OMB, shall incorporate management of AI software vulnerabilities and compromises into their respective agencies’ existing processes and interagency coordination mechanisms for vulnerability management, including through incident tracking, response, and reporting, and by sharing indicators of compromise for AI systems.

Sec. 6. Aligning Policy to Practice. (a) IT infrastructure and networks that support agencies' 
critical missions need to be modernized. Agencies' policies must align investments and priorities 
to improve network visibility and security controls to reduce cyber risks.
(i) Within 3 years of the date of this order, the Director of OMB shall issue guidance, 
including any necessary revision to OMB Circular A–130, to address critical risks and 
adapt modern practices and architectures across Federal information systems and 
networks. This guidance shall, at a minimum:
(A) outline expectations for agency cybersecurity information sharing and 
exchange, enterprise visibility, and accountability for enterprise-wide 
cybersecurity programs by agency CISOs;
(B) revise OMB Circular A–130 to be less technically prescriptive in key areas, 
where appropriate, to more clearly promote the adoption of evolving cybersecurity 
best practices across Federal systems, and to include migration to zero trust 
architectures and implementation of critical elements such as EDR capabilities, 
encryption, network segmentation, and phishing-resistant multi-factor 
authentication; and
(C) address how agencies should identify, assess, respond to, and mitigate risks to 
mission essential functions presented by concentration of IT vendors and services.
(ii) The Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST; the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, acting through the Director of CISA; and the Director of OMB 
shall establish a pilot program of a rules-as-code approach for machine-readable 
versions of policy and guidance that OMB, NIST, and CISA publish and manage 
regarding cybersecurity.
(b) Managing cybersecurity risks is now a part of everyday industry practice and should be 
expected for all types of businesses. Minimum cybersecurity requirements can make it costlier 
and harder for threat actors to compromise networks. Within 240 days of the date of this order, 
the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST, shall evaluate common 
cybersecurity practices and security control outcomes that are commonly used or recommended 
13
across industry sectors, international standards bodies, and other risk management programs, and 
based on that evaluation issue guidance identifying minimum cybersecurity practices. In 
developing this guidance, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST, shall 
solicit input from the Federal Government, the private sector, academia, and other appropriate 
actors.
(c) Agencies face multiple cybersecurity risks when purchasing products and services. While 
agencies have already made significant advances to improve their supply chain risk management, 
additional actions are needed to keep pace with the evolving threat landscape. Within 180 days of 
the issuance of the guidance described in subsection (b) of this section, the FAR Council shall 
review the guidance and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the agency members 
of the FAR Council shall jointly take steps to amend the FAR to:
(i) require that contractors with the Federal Government follow applicable minimum 
cybersecurity practices identified in NIST's guidance pursuant to subsection (b) of this 
section with respect to work performed under agency contracts or when developing, 
maintaining, or supporting IT services or products that are provided to the Federal 
Government; and
(ii) adopt requirements for agencies to, by January 4, 2027, require vendors to the 
Federal Government of consumer Internet-of-Things products, as defined by 47 C.F.R. 
8.203(b), to carry United States Cyber Trust Mark labeling for those products.
Sec. 7.  Aligning Policy to Practice.  Agencies’ policies must align investments and priorities to improve network visibility and security controls to reduce cyber risks.  In consultation with the National Cyber Director, agencies shall take the following actions:

(a)  Within 3 years of the date of this order, the Director of OMB shall issue guidance, including any necessary revision to OMB Circular A–130, to address critical risks and adapt modern practices and architectures across Federal information systems and networks.

(b)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST; the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of CISA; and the Director of OMB shall establish a pilot program of a rules-as- code approach for machine-readable versions of policy and guidance that OMB, NIST, and CISA publish and manage regarding cybersecurity.

(c)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, agency members of the FAR Council shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, jointly take steps to amend the FAR to adopt requirements for agencies to, by January 4, 2027, require vendors to the Federal Government of consumer Internet-of-Things products, as defined by 47 CFR 8.203(b), to carry United States Cyber Trust Mark labeling for those products.
Sec. 8. Additional Steps to Combat Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities. 
Sec. 8. Definitions. For purposes of this order:
(a) The term "agency" has the meaning ascribed to it under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), except for the 
independent regulatory agencies described in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).
(b) The term "artifact" means a record or data that is generated manually or by automated 
means and may be used to demonstrate compliance with defined practices, including for secure 
software development.
(c) The term "artificial intelligence" or "AI" has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 9401(3).
(d) The term "AI system" means any data system, software, hardware, application, tool, or 
utility that operates in whole or in part using AI.
(e) The term "authentication" means the process of determining the validity of one or more 
authenticators, such as a password, used to claim a digital identity.
(f) The term "Border Gateway Protocol" or "BGP" means the control protocol used to 
distribute and compute paths between the tens of thousands of autonomous networks that 
constitute the Internet.
(g) The term "consumer Internet-of-Things products" means Internet-of-Things products 
intended primarily for consumer use, rather than enterprise or industrial use. Consumer Internetof-Things products do not include medical devices regulated by the United States Food and Drug 
Administration or motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment regulated by the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
(h) The term "cyber incident" has the meaning given to the term "incident" under 44 U.S.C. 
3552(b)(2).
(i) The term "debilitating impact systems" means systems as described by 44 U.S.C. 
3553(e)(2) and 3553(e)(3) for Department of Defense and Intelligence Community purposes, 
respectively.
(j) The term "digital identity document" means an electronic, reusable, cryptographically 
verifiable identity credential issued by a Government source, such as a State-issued mobile 
driver's license or an electronic passport.
(k) The term "digital identity verification" means identity verification that a user performs 
online.
(l) The term "endpoint" means any device that can be connected to a computer network 
creating an entry or exit point for data communications. Examples of endpoints include desktop 
and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, servers, workstations, virtual machines, and 
consumer Internet-of-Things products.
(m) The term "endpoint detection and response" means cybersecurity tools and capabilities 
that combine real-time continuous monitoring and collection of endpoint data (for example, 
networked computing device such as workstations, mobile phones, servers) with rules-based 
automated response and analysis capabilities.
(n) The term "Federal Civilian Executive Branch agencies" or "FCEB agencies" includes all 
agencies except for the agencies and other components in the Department of Defense and 
agencies in the Intelligence Community.
(o) The term "Federal information system" means an information system used or operated by 
an agency, a contractor of an agency, or another organization on behalf of an agency.
17
(p) The term "Government-operated identity verification system" means a system owned and 
operated by a Federal, State, local, Tribal, or territorial Government entity that performs identity 
verification, including single-agency systems and shared services that provide service to multiple 
agencies.
(q) The term "hardware root of trust" means an inherently trusted combination of hardware 
and firmware that helps to maintain the integrity of information.
(r) The term "hybrid key establishment" means a key establishment scheme that is a 
combination of two or more components that are themselves cryptographic key-establishment 
schemes.
(s) The term "identity verification" means the process of collecting identity information or 
evidence, validating its legitimacy, and confirming that it is associated with the real person 
providing it.
(t) The term "Intelligence Community" has the meaning given to it under 50 U.S.C. 3003(4).
(u) The term "key establishment" means the process by which a cryptographic key is 
securely shared between two or more entities.
(v) The term "least privilege" means the principle that a security architecture is designed so 
that each entity is granted the minimum system resources and authorizations that the entity needs 
to perform its function.
(w) The term "machine-readable" means that the product output is in a structured format that 
can be consumed by another program using consistent processing logic.
(x) The term "national security systems" or "NSS" has the meaning given to it under 44 
U.S.C. 3552(b)(6).
(y) The term "patch" means a software component that, when installed, directly modifies 
files or device settings related to a different software component without changing the version 
number or release details for the related software component.
(z) The term "rules-as-code approach" means a coded version of rules (for example, those 
contained in legislation, regulation, or policy) that can be understood and used by a computer.
(aa) The term "secure booting" means a security feature that prevents malicious software 
from running when a computer system starts up. The security feature performs a series of checks 
during the boot sequence that helps ensure only trusted software is loaded.
(bb) The term "security control outcome" means the results of the performance or nonperformance of safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an information system or an 
organization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its 
information.
(cc) The term "zero trust architecture" has the meaning given to it in Executive Order 14028.
Sec. 10. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or 
otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head 
thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to 
budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law and subject 
to the availability of appropriations.
18
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or 
procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, 
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)  The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by the Department of Homeland Security.

DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

June 6, 2025.
